Extended Data Fig. 1 | Disordered region prediction. a, Example prediction for a disordered protein from AlphaFoldMultimer v2.3, AlphaFold 3, and AlphaFold 3 trained without the disordered protein PDB cross distillation set. Protein is DP02376 from the CAID 2 (Critical Assessment of protein Intrinsic Disorder prediction) set. Predictions coloured by pLDDT (orange: pLDDT <= 50, yellow: 50 < pLDDT <= 70, light blue: 70 < pLDDT <= 90, and dark blue: 90 <= pLDDT < 100). b, Predictions of disorder across residues in proteins in the CAID 2 set, which are also low homology to the AF3 training set. Prediction methods include RASA (relative accessible surface area) and pLDDT (N = 151 proteins;

Extended Data Fig. 2 | Accuracy across training. Training curves for initial training and fine tuning showing LDDT (local distance difference test) on our evaluation set as a function of optimizer steps. One optimizer step uses a mini batch of 256 trunk samples and during initial training 256 * 48 = 12,288 diffusion samples. For fine tuning the number of diffusion samples is reduced to 256 * 32 = 8,192. The scatter plot shows the raw data points and the lines show the smoothed performance using a median filter with a kernel width of 9 data points. The dashed lines mark the points where the smoothed performance passes 90% and 97% of the initial training maximum for the first time.

Article Extended Data Fig. 3 | AlphaFold 3 predictions of PoseBusters examples for which Vina and Gold were inaccurate. Predicted protein chains are shown in blue, predicted ligands in orange, and ground truth in grey. a, Human Notum bound to inhibitor ARUK3004556 (PDB ID 8BTI, ligand RMSD: 0.65 Å). b, Pseudomonas sp. PDC86 Aapf bound to HEHEAA (PDB ID 7KZ9, ligand RMSD: 1.3 Å). c, Human Galectin-3 carbohydrate-recognition domain in complex with compound 22 (PDB ID 7XFA, ligand RMSD: 0.44 Å).

Extended Data Fig. 4 | PoseBusters analysis. a, Comparison of AlphaFold 3 and baseline method protein-ligand binding success on the PoseBusters Version 1 benchmark set (V1, August 2023 release). Methods classified by the extent of ground truth information used to make predictions. Note all methods that use pocket residue information except for UMol and AF3 also use ground truth holo protein structures. b, PoseBusters Version 2 (V2, November 2023 release) comparison between the leading docking method Vina and AF3 2019 (two-sided Fisher exact test, N = 308 targets, p = 2.3 * 10−8). c, PoseBusters V2 results of AF3 2019 on targets with low, moderate, and high protein sequence homology (integer ranges indicate maximum sequence identity with proteins in the training set). d, PoseBusters V2 results of AF3 2019 with ligands split by those characterized as “common natural” ligands and others. “Common natural” ligands are defined as those which occur greater than 100 times in the PDB and which are not non-natural (by visual inspection). A full list may be found in Supplementary Table 15. Dark bar indicates RMSD < 2 Å and passing PoseBusters validity checks (PB-valid). e, PoseBusters V2 structural accuracy and validity. Dark bar indicates RMSD < 2 Å and passing PoseBusters validity checks (PB-valid). Light hashed bar indicates RMSD < 2 Å but not PB valid. f, PoseBusters V2 detailed validity check comparison. Error bars indicate exact binomial distribution 95% confidence intervals. N = 427 targets for RoseTTAFold All-Atom and 428 targets for all others in Version 1; 308 targets in Version 2.

Article Extended Data Fig. 5 | Nucleic acid prediction accuracy and confidences. a, CASP15 RNA prediction accuracy from AIChemy_RNA (the top AI-based submission), RoseTTAFold2NA (the AI-based method capable of predicting proteinRNA complexes), and AlphaFold 3. Ten of the 13 targets are available in the PDB or via the CASP15 website for evaluation. Predictions are downloaded from the CASP website for external models. b, Accuracy on structures containing low homology RNA-only or DNA-only complexes from the recent PDB evaluation set. Comparison between AlphaFold 3 and RoseTTAFold2NA (RF2NA) (RNA: N = 29 structures, paired Wilcoxon signed-rank test, p = 1.6 * 10−7; DNA: N = 63 structures, paired two-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank test, p = 5.2 * 10−12). Note RF2NA was only trained and evaluated on duplexes (chains forming at least 10 hydrogen bonds), but some DNA structures in this set may not be duplexes. Box, centerline, and whiskers boundaries are at (25%, 75%) intervals, median, and (5%, 95%) intervals. c Predicted structure of a mycobacteriophage immunity repressor protein bound to double stranded DNA (PDB ID 7R6R), coloured by pLDDT (left; orange: 0–50, yellow: 50–70, cyan 70–90, and blue 90–100) and chain id (right). Note the disordered N-terminus not entirely shown. d, Predicted aligned error (PAE) per token-pair for the prediction in c with rows and columns labelled by chain id and green gradient indicating PAE.

Article Extended Data Fig. 7 | Model accuracy with MSA size and number of seeds. a, Effect of MSA depth on protein prediction accuracy. Accuracy is given as single chain LDDT score and MSA depth is computed by counting the number of non-gap residues for each position in the MSA using the Neff weighting scheme and taking the median across residues (see Methods for details on Neff). MSA used for AF-M 2.3 differs slightly from AF3; the data uses the AF3 MSA depth for both to make the comparison clearer. The analysis uses every protein chain in the low homology Recent PDB set, restricted to chains in complexes with fewer than 20 protein chains and fewer than 2,560 tokens (see Methods for details on Recent PDB set and comparisons to AF-M 2.3). The curves are obtained through Gaussian kernel average smoothing (window size is 0.2 units in log10(Neff)); the shaded area is the 95% confidence interval estimated using bootstrap of 10,000 samples. b, Increase in ranked accuracy with number of seeds for different molecule types. Predictions are ranked by confidence, and only the most confident per interface is scored. Evaluated on the low homology recent PDB set, filtered to less than 1,536 tokens. Number of clusters evaluated: dna-intra = 386, protein-intra = 875, rnaintra = 78, protein-dna = 307, protein-rna = 102, protein-protein (antibody = False) = 697, protein-protein (antibody = True) = 58. Confidence intervals are 95% bootstraps over 1,000 samples.

Extended Data Fig. 8 | Relationship between confidence and accuracy for protein interactions with ions, bonded ligands and bonded glycans. Accuracy is given as the percentage of interface clusters under various pocket- aligned RMSD thresholds, as a function of the chain pair ipTM of the interface. The ions group includes both metals and nonmetals. N values report the number of clusters in each band. For a similar analysis on general ligand-protein interfaces, see Fig. 4 of main text.

Article Extended Data Fig. 9 | Correlation of DockQ and iLDDT for protein-protein interfaces. One data point per cluster, 4,182 clusters shown. Line of best fit with a Huber regressor with epsilon 1. DockQ categories correct (>0.23), and very high accuracy (>0.8) correspond to iLDDTs of 23.6 and 77.6 respectively.

Extended Data Table 1 | Prediction accuracy across biomolecular complexes AlphaFold 3 Performance on PoseBusters V1 (August 2023 release), PoseBusters V2 (November 6th 2023 release), and our Recent PDB evaluation set. For ligands and nucleic acids N indicates number of structures; for covalent modifications and proteins N indicates number of clusters.
